[Music]
a television screen from here to Bangor
Maine greatest point guard to ever play
the game
is here super legend the point guard
ever to play the game of basketball
normally when every said special guests
it could be anyone but this time it
really is especially yes that's right
mr. Magic Johnson was the best point
guard of the 1980s Isiah I will have to
save Magic Johnson number one Magic
Johnson Magic Johnson a six nine lead
part
[Music]
[Applause]
he's only got ever seen we'll look at a
guy time measure for speed measure his
distance look away for about three
seconds look you off and then hit that
guy in the dime without everything
[Music]
everybody wants to be mad everybody
wanted to go out there for the fans to
pass
he wanted to win so bad but he always
had fun she's always smiling he always
appealed to the crowd he always want the
crowd to be any because you need us what
the teams get all seven feet smart in
that aspect if I could do that then I'll
be on my way if I could learn how to
give an assist in their play to the
crowd and get the crowd involved then I
think that's what it's all about I could
remember back in the day when I used to
watch this a male would love to play
against him and he was retiring when I
got into the NBA and when he came back I
thought that it was wonderful it was
amazing that I was actually out on the
floor at the same time as he was he was
having the basketball I mean this is
like a dream come true I couldn't really
talk to him it was almost by huge talk
to me and I was dissing Bob's like wide
opening it was like okay yeah and I
don't even know if I even hear what he
said but I was just watching mouths
going out they okay got these stops I
went off unbelievable I mean when you
finally see somebody for the first time
that she's really loved of this
appreciated your entire life you meet
them for the first time I'm amazed it's
like a total shock
let me feel great because there was my
idol going up and then he was the guy
that I really wanted to be like he was
we gotta just set the tone for guys like
myself to come into the game and play
point guard being over 65 I just telling
him that it was just great to be out on
the floor at the same time you probably
already guessed that we were going to
put magic at number one since he's the
only point guard that showed up on our
top 10 greatest players of all time list
and it was good reason of the 15 point
guard related stats and analytics we
looked at as mentioned in the outset
magic is top 20 and 13 of them and top
10 and eight on top of that he wants
five championships is a three-time MVP
and two-time Finals MVP he's number five
all-time and total assists number one in
assists per game for the regular season
and the playoffs number five an assist
percentage number three an offensive
rating number one an offensive rating
for the playoffs and has a fifth most
win shares for the playoffs in NBA his
treat those achievements are amazing
playing alongside other Hall of Fame
players like Kareem abdul-jabbar and
James Worthy magic could have blended
into the scenery and let his teammates
run the show instead he had the
greatness to stand out among those
players and established himself as the
leader of the team his size mobility and
ball handling skills made him one of the
most complete players ever proof of this
is the fact that he's second only to
Oscar Robertson and triple-doubles
[Music]
this guy's a freak of nature 6:9 and
handle the ball way to handle it
Magic Johnson had tremendous basketball
intelligence like a great base runner
knowing as he comes around first base
why this can be a triple and not a
double he just sees the whole series of
possibilities in front of him I could
never get him hit the head on purpose
and crisis just to show me that I can
get the ball to if you want it open up
that eye on the side of her head
he brought the playground back into
basketball high five and jumping up and
down and joined everything wanting to
get the people involved in the game it's
just refreshing to have anybody that
comes along with that type of enthusiasm
that love for the game and you can't
help but get caught up in that he had to
have fun it's gotta be fun to him I
couldn't just all be working drudgery
and being serious I mean he was the most
serious fun person I have ever been
around in my life
Mervin being the point guard knew that
he had to conduct that team when they
were down he had to psych them up when
they were too high he had to bring him
down he was really a coach on the court
Magic Johnson was different and it was
evident and clear when he had the ball
that things were going on that people
hadn't seen he can do anything he could
be a power forward he could be the
world's tallest point guard he could be
the world's shortest seven-foot Center
if you go to the worst seat in the arena
there's only a few that reach that high
Magic Johnson reaches all the way to
that top row I believe I was the second
best point guard of that era but magic
Johnson was the best point guard in my
opinion type of play who are guys just
quick off the top of your head that you
compete against at the point guard that
you felt you guys were so great they
just didn't get there just do I would
say in in the 80s for for a short period
of time
I thought weeks I thought mark price had
a run in this league for about two years
or so there was just about as good as
anybody
you definitely mo cheeks Gus Williams I
have one tiny Archibald was still you
know it is a tennis you know but by
saying all that saying all that there
was to it
none of them were like magic right not
none of us for you none of us were like
magic
during his 13-year NBA career magic
accumulated three MVP awards three
Finals MVP awards ten all-nba first team
selections five championships and twelve
all-star appearances Magic Johnson is
fifth all-time and total assists not bad
for what most would define as a short
career 18th all time in steals and first
all-time in assists per game
Magic Johnson had an amazing career and
is perhaps the greatest point guard of
all time depending on who you ask
he was born in Lansing Michigan
Christine and urban Johnson in 1959 one
of ten children his legend grew from
playing on the playgrounds cuz they have
I will see this kid come off man he
complained and they tell somebody else
and then it just got all over town and
they started looking for him and asking
for him let's play let's play
in 1974 urban took his playground game
to Everett high school I could see the
greatness of urban Johnson he was about
14 years old coming into high school
once we got in a game he would always
include everybody he wanted to win and
meant if he had to score 50 he would but
if he had to score 20 and get everybody
else involved that's the greatness ayah
that I appreciated in his first season
Johnson pulled the Everett Vikings out
of the doldrums of losing basketball as
they became state championship
contenders for the first time in the
process he became the darling of the
press a guy came in and said oh I gotta
give you a nickname never seen anything
like this and I said I'm 15 now I
started giggling I'm a boy they giggling
- yeah okay so he says somebody's called
dr. day somebody has the name biggy said
can I call you magic idea right
so the next day in the paper back home
Earvin Magic Johnson in his senior year
Magic averaged 29 points and led Everett
to where it had never gone for this team
Everett high school who really didn't
have a history of basketball to win the
state title you know it was just like
who's every and all sudden here they are
and it couldn't be stopped it's very
good there's no question about it
actually I thought he's probably the
best guard on the team we didn't get to
play a lot but you could tell I think
our first game was in Kentucky we got
about a 10 12 point lead and they put us
in went to 2530 just that fast
[Applause]
take us out the lead go back down put us
back in that's the show start again
as a youngster Irvin displayed his own
strong work ethic on the blacktop I was
out there all day before we went to
school bus leave at 7:00 7:30 hours I'd
say at 6:00 6:30 was working on my game
my mother sometimes had to bring me food
or she would have one of my brothers and
sister go get that boy so he could eat
something from a very young age Irvin
knew what he wanted to do he had all
planned out my dream for the planet MBA
and become a businessman
but for neighborhood basketball
powerhouse Sexton high I knew the
players I knew the tradition I wanted to
be a part of that and it was on the west
side of town which was at that time
predominantly black but when Lansing
like many cities in the mid 70s began
busing to desegregated school system
Ervin's journey took an unexpected
detour a predominantly white school
across town my first day at every high
school was my first time I really had to
understand there was a race problem
nobody why would speak to anybody black
and nobody black was big to anybody
white a lot of racial tension a lot of
fights rioting they didn't want
minorities there he kind of shrugged it
off and basically his attitude was okay
well I'll overcome this whenever there
was any racial problems the principal
would get her and go talk to these kids
I can just see him with his big hands
calm down just calm down he break up
fights talk with his friends tell him
you know let it go we know we can't
fight about everything let's just chill
let's play basketball and there was no
dispute over urban Johnson's ability to
play ball his talent was so great that
soon after his varsity debut a local
reporter dazzled by his exploits gave
the budding star a nickname in the
beginning I thought it was foolish and
dumb
no nickname then what happened was you
start saying wait a minute
it fits my game hanging out with my boys
on the street corners we used to sing
temptation song they start saying hey
man Madison that's cool and then people
in the streets are saying hey magic and
I said hmm he bought into it and I think
he felt he had to kind of live up to
that name and I must say that he did his
senior year
Johnson did it Everett what he had
planned to do with Sexton win the state
championship recruited by over a hundred
schools nationwide a hometown hero
stayed put attended Michigan State he
wanted to be a guard from day one even
though he was 6-8 this first game he
sports seven points and had seven
turnovers and there were people that
said well judges ruining Magic Johnson
playing him out of position but magic
quickly adjusted to his new position and
by midseason the Spartans stood in the
glare of the national spotlight that's
what I remember about Michigan State the
fact that we got a chance to change
college basketball
and we did it with style he had an
unbelievable basketball IQ he was the
the leader he was a take-charge guy from
the day he walked on the corn side yeah
throw it up this is for the whole east
side yeah throw it up for my thirties in
the Midwest yeah I know it up filthy
ride south yeah I know so dollar signs
up stop playing games
get your ball fucking paper Danny means
man it's a long game stuff whatever it
takes
if you scramble on a bro seconds Tony
days then it is
you know you got great hair
as Michigan State's resident basketball
genius magic had clearly found a new
home he also found cookie his future
wife
we totally fell in love at first sight I
had a boyfriend at the time and when I
decided to go to Michigan State because
no you can't go to Michigan State I'm
like you're gonna meet magic you're
gonna meet magic in mirror and that's
the truth that's that's a true story
and I at the time I had no clue he had
the whole world at his feet at 18 he
came to different people when he was
with me he was urban but the minute we
stepped outside that door he became
magic
I mean magic was his stage name even he
would laugh about him
[Music]
well he always says there's two people
is urban Johnson from East Lansing and
there's Magic Johnson from Hollywood is
another guy you know he is Magic over
here fun-loving guy never saw aren't you
good distress him I don't stress
stretching's for show-offs my ball plan
doesn't talking for me so you know when
I was in college one time I was watching
the game on TV they had this home box
office thing and I turned on this game
they were playing against Russia and I
just watched her magic playing I go oh
my god that's the best player I've ever
seen playing because I didn't follow
basketball he was a sophomore at the
time
[Applause]
[Music]
I remember telling Fran amaizing they're
gonna win the NCAA Championship this
year well we go all the way through
undefeated and there's magic standing
there it's just like it was made to
happen on the night of March 26 1979 it
was the NCAA Championship
Indiana State vs Michigan State a game
that still ranks as the highest-rated
college final ever on television
a game that's now remembered as a
prologue to a rivalry that transformed a
sport and intertwine two legacies
but on that night March 26 1979 the
first time Magic Johnson and Larry Bird
ever went head-to-head on a basketball
court there were simply two young men
trying to win a very big ballgame the
biggest game I ever played in my life
and I just feel like you know I'm
representing not only myself my team but
we're representing our school or in our
town Terre Haute was a dream come true
really for me on I want to state the
title back in my home state and then my
next accomplishment was going to the
NCAA and planning a game like tonight in
the finals they were two stars thrown
together by the cosmos to compete
everything was written with burgers
magic magic versus bird that whole thing
and and it wasn't Indiana State versus
Michigan State anymore it was it was lab
versus Magic Johnson Larry Bird had
become alongside Magic Johnson the talk
of college basketball I imagine want to
be friends with Larry Bird he wanted to
be friends with them in the world an
invitational tournament and Larry just
wasn't very receptive I think he wanted
to be friends with him during the Final
Four Larry I wouldn't even go over and
shake his hand
so now magics saying well what's with
this guy everybody loves me how come you
don't love me just a year after sharing
the court on Team USA they were back
together and the day before the big game
magic couldn't wait to greet his old
playmate in the air state was on
practicing and we were waiting in a
tunnel we got there early
I wanted to definitely say hello to
Larry you know when they came through it
was like nobody was saying that I wanted
to go toward him like his guys like made
sure that he didn't say none and then
they kind of start snickering like
Michigan State are you in trouble we're
gonna kill you guys tomorrow that just
said it's on now
[Applause]
I mean let's face it if Larry Bird were
black and came through Chicago it
wouldn't have been as big a deal they
were they were polar opposites one black
one white one outgoing one shy that was
the charm of the attraction heading into
the tournament magic was the bigger star
but by tip-off it was bird having hardly
missed a shot in the semi-final would
become the focus a fans and more
importantly of Michigan State we
actually had two men on Larry everywhere
he went surprised didn't play a box on
one you know four guys on Larry and one
on the other four because that's they
didn't have a lot of talent you know if
you stop Larry you pretty much stop them
I didn't play well at all
biggest game of my life and in play well
I think our length and our size our
jumping ability was able to bother him
[Applause]
don't you well mist think three
free-throws Larry Bird has had a cold
shooting night I battled them but I
didn't have it
[Music]
[Applause]
magic not only where your leader on
offense I thought you get a great job on
Larry Bird in the zone tonight in the
ball he has a coach gave a group game
plan the goal gives Larry Bird all we
had to do is go out and do it that's
what we've done
congratulations super ballgame it was
over you know that was my four years I
was done
that still hurts and when you win 33 in
a row and you walk into the game you
know you never know what to expect but I
expect to win we didn't win
toughest loss ever took I knew it what's
going on to him forever because we were
gonna see each other a lot
in college when we met for the 1979 NCAA
championship you know I had a real
dislike for Larry it was nasty was ugly
was so we didn't like each other magic
were you inclined early on to become
friends with this guy because you were
drawn to him because of his basketball
abilities was we did you want to be
friends with him from the beginning from
the beginning I want to be friends but
Larry didn't want none of that they had
some wonderful moments on the court but
they probably spoke to each other for
maybe five times during that entire time
period and and it was more like hello
how are you this morning Larry
I'm good magic what'd you have for
breakfast don't remember have a nice day
but such curtness was hardly strange
coming from Larry Bird I'm the one who
did all that tell you truth it was I
just want to be hanging around him I
mean that's my main competition I think
he was a mystery to the extent that that
that he wanted to be a mystery he didn't
enjoy doing interviews he didn't go out
of his way to do them he wasn't
particularly good at he was kind of like
hey this is who I am you wanna know who
I am
watch the game and so I I said okay
that's how it's gonna be then we had to
be like you don't like me fine all right
good I don't like you either disliking
him too but you know he told me that you
know I smiled all the time and he knew
that I
I was smile at you but I want to cut
your heart out at the same time so he
knew that that was part of my strategy
to gets him lure him in as much he
didn't want to show demonstrated any
weakness by becoming your friend now did
you feel what his advances to being a
friend and you just rejected them you
were not interesting didn't like him I
mean what was what was your side of that
not like one mole girlfriends
Vance is like a little scared I probably
did snubbing and I don't remember it but
I'm sure I did I didn't want any you
know like I call it love fest hugging
and slapping high fives with opponent
you're there for a reason you're there
to win a game you know my fame was when
you compete you're really not friends
you want to keep an edge he wanted to be
the Wizard of Oz he wanted to intimidate
people and keep them at bay the further
we are away from each other the more I
like I was like that through high school
and through college but Irving's an
outgoing guy he loves everybody wants to
high-five and you know he got that big
big smile my goal was the type take
through them teeth home with Indiana
Michigan aided by forward Greg Kell sir
magic led the Spartans into the final
four at the beginning of the game did
you meet urban there why do you do you
remember trying to talk to Larry before
the game nope yeah you had learned your
lesson I had learned my lesson and at
that time he was going after something I
wanted bad and I was going after
something he wanted bad so we didn't
want to talk we wanted to get it on
meanwhile across the southern state line
Larry Bird's sycamores of Indiana State
savored their unbeaten season we were
totally shocked and we'd watch them all
year long coming along and we kind of
thought you know well as soon as they
get to the tournament then we'll find
out the real thing and they somehow they
just kept winning
Michigan State wasn't a dropkick then
either I mean back then it was believed
that magic was great but oh he couldn't
shoot
and so it wasn't a foregone conclusion
that we'd see Magican and Larry in the
final and then the unlikely occurred
magic and bird would meet for the
national title their differences were
striking when Larry Bird played against
Magic Johnson in the 1979 NCAA finals
you would have thought that there
couldn't be two people less alike in the
world I didn't I liked labor he didn't
like me because we were both going after
the same thing I want to be the best and
he wanted to be the best so it's like
two old gunslingers saying meet me our
friend and you know only one could
survive all of a sudden you had a
college basketball game it felt like a
heavyweight championship fight this
thing picked up momentum and picked up
momentum and and here you had this jazzy
kid from East Lansing and the hick from
French Lick and and one kid with a team
of four players that you knew wouldn't
be able to get a pickup game soon as it
trying to move over and then this this
team that that had to be flashy because
they had to keep up with magic it was
Ali Frazier it's it's it's all it was as
it turned out they were company and
ivory twins they were they were the same
guy they were a small town guys who grew
up on their local hard courts where they
could spend five hours seven hours a day
just playing basketball and the only
thing that cared about was winning the
game we're mirrors of each other
I'm a smile a little bit more but the
way we play the game a basketball was
exactly the same because we would do
anything to win we didn't care about
scoring points we cared about winning
the game and making our teammates better
magic flew over the Sycamore
scoring 24 points while a beleaguered
burg remained on the ground
had a tremendous advantage of guards of
that era and even the guards of today is
that he could see the whole court he can
see over people because of his height
and then his great ability to handle the
ball and pass he could just do more
things because he was a six eight point
guard magic was a smile involved in the
way he get the ball off the board and
dribble it up and make the play it
seemed like he had his hand in
everything
[Applause]
[Music]
that was a similar game it brought a lot
of non-college fans to the game who then
became college basketball fans
I got a chance to turn on Michigan State
around and make him a basketball power
we were not winning the national
championship it was the best team in
college basketball at that time we knew
he's gonna play against a great team
Michigan State as by watch small film I
knew it's gonna be the best team we
played against all year but when in 33
games in a row you know he sort of take
teams lied at the n-c-double-a
championship is that right what did that
it was like a 10-point loss am i right
Larry well thank you Dave yeah felt more
more like a 20-point loss but you know
when you're out there playing and you
get started in these games sometimes go
oh these guys are pretty good right and
I had that feeling a halftime that these
guys were too much
I don't know mentally if I just prepared
as I should have been in for that game
because I mean I didn't have a good game
I shot like seven for 20 from the field
and you know our team to relied on me to
score so if I had a week to go back on
papi that week to prepare and get ready
for that game losing that championship
mean to you and how did it affect it's a
toughest one I've ever taken because you
had all your friends you're at a college
it's really when you step away from home
I felt in Indiana State they accepted me
brought me in it was tough and it's
still tough but today and he couldn't
escape the memory of losing to him
in 1979 oh it ate at him bad that he
didn't win that national title against
magic there was something
just burning it was one thing for them
to be in the 79 championship magichead
the better team everybody agreed with
that to magic what did winning that
title mean for you well you know you
just heard him it's still tough going
after the NCAA somebody else would have
just been happy with winning that and
just loaded on that and he you know he
took him that long to say okay take this
to the next level with a stage set for a
new era two players would dominate
national attention for the next decade
the Magic Bird game change the NBA and
colleges that made the Final Four so
popular because that's where the show
was going next and it was magic leading
the way it was big then because it was
the highest rated college basketball
game of all time if you wrote this
scripted to shave but in real life we
really embraced it loved it
believed needed that the NBA at the time
struggling doesn't begin to describe
where the NBA was we hoped the glow that
attached to their season would attach to
us
the rumors were fast he was the number
one pick of the LA Lakers they drafted
Magic Johnson and they flew him out to
Los Angeles so it was going to be the
first time that my dad ever met him he
came to our house he rang the doorbell I
had the honor of opening the door and
here was this kid with this smile that
just blew you away so I escorted him and
Bill Sharman into the house and asked
them if they'd like something to drink
made some small talk and magic said you
know I'm really happy that I was drafted
by the Lakers and I'm gonna play here
for three years and then I'm gonna go
play for the Detroit Pistons because
that's where I'm from like my life
I bawled you out of my head I couldn't
believe what he said and you know and
you gotta imagine I was 17 and magics 19
I mean we're very close in age he's just
another teenager to me and but he had
this command and this vision of exactly
who he was and what he you know what he
loved doing and I like this isn't the
plan so I ran upstairs to talk to my dad
and say you know he just told me that
he's gonna play for three years and then
he's gonna leave and my dad didn't miss
a beat didn't even stop what he was
doing he said you know as soon as he
puts on a Lakers uniform I walks out on
that floor he's never going
[Music]
what tripped me out was I'm riding right
I'm riding in a limo I'm seeing orange
trees and lemon trees in people's front
yards to stop I gotta go pick up orange
are you crazy I said no I gotta do this
and so I ran up like a like a scared
little kid grabbed a whole head back to
the limo I've never seen an orange tree
I had never seen a lemon tree I was
fascinated when 20 year-old Earvin
Johnson arrived in Los Angeles in the
fall of 1979 he was a world away from
Lansing the only home he'd ever known
[Applause]
[Music]
the Lakers needed a player that was a
leader they needed a rebounder and they
got him one player he was a breath of
fresh air I think what he saw this kid
out there he was a kid with this
enormous amount of energy I think it
rejuvenated his interest in the game it
was a wonderful combination
Jabbar probably needed the burden
relieved from him out there every night
by himself he came at the perfect time
to my career because I had lost a lot of
enthusiasm his skill and expertise is
what the team is like we improved so
much and made it easy for me to smile
there was something magnetic about this
not only is played but that smile
personality he did everything
you had to fuck magic took the once
two-spirited Lakers into the 1980 finals
versus the 76ers but when an injury
knock Kareem abdul-jabbar out of Game
five it appeared the Lakers 3-2
advantage was over that it what it is as
far as I was concerned the it was not
his ability or his size the it was his
attitude was his leadership was his mind
I mean I don't have to talk about Game
six at Philadelphia I check John said
well sure in his rookie season magic had
helped lead the Lakers to the NBA Finals
against the Philadelphia 76ers
I think the Sixers game was like
practice
and win without Kareem so you could play
magic at center you get anything you
want and compete winning was the last
thing on our mind so when we come out to
the center court magic steps into Center
and I think it's shocked Philadelphia in
Game six with an injured abdul-jabbar
back home in LA
magic played all five positions scored
42 points grabbed 15 rebounds and dished
out 7 assists magic played brilliantly
dealing 7 assists grabbing 15 rebounds
and scoring a season high of 42 points
the Lakers won their first NBA title in
eight years
you shot the hook shot a jump shot he
broke through the basket he dropped a
couple shot I've never liked Magic
Johnson off but the way here's a guy
that should have stayed in college and
gotten these college degree at least
stay for one more year
[Music]
people really weren't sure whether or
not you were gonna be making in this
league and making a bigot you certainly
made a believer out of me flare I
haven't seen you play that much you're
absolutely fantastic I believe Kareem
not playing was the worst thing that
could have happened for 76 years in that
series in just four years he'd won
titles in high school college and the
pros you know I just did what I did and
I did it to win I I'm so happy that
every stage of my career I want
championships high school college MBA
and then the main thing is making my
teammates better you know coming down
man wasn't nothing like coming down on
that fast-break looking left on right
you know and here in a crowd scream
cross the masthead of the Los Angeles
Times the next day whatever took for the
team to win if it meant getting rebounds
going points getting assists if you
would do it you get to the pros Larry
has this incredible year but there he is
watching in a club while magic Johnson
wins a championship and he's thinking
all right I'm behind to nothing now I
watched that game and I couldn't believe
it I was one play at that level but what
bird couldn't possibly have known was
that he had inspired magics performance
when he was named Rookie of the Year
earlier that same day the PR person from
the Lakers says hey Irvin the Rookie of
the Year voting has come out and magic
says okay well who won he said well
Larry Bird won and magic says well was
it close and he said oh no he went out
that day yes to try to win the NBA
championship but also to prove it 2-1
Larry Bird you know what I should have
been rocky in the air even though I won
the championship I still want to win
wicker you too he wanted a championship
I was pissed I wanted one but even after
he had won one the next year his
obsession only grew deeper I'd get up in
the mornings and see what he did because
her games came on late then you look at
the box score I had to have him there
for some reason like a crutch
somebody can compare myself to I hated
what was being said that Larry was
better than me and I'm just a guy who
can control the game my first four or
five years that bothered me a lot I
didn't tell nobody it bothered me but it
did he was a star when he first arrived
here coming off the nc2 a game and
quickly during that first season he
became one of these stars in town but
that game put him on another level that
made him be star in town
[Music]
it's funny how I wanted to meet the
celebrities but they wanted to meet me I
was like shocked you know who he was
young
famous and after Lakers owner Jerry Buss
signed him to a 25 year twenty five
million dollar contract very rich the
kid from Lansing was ready to sample a
different kind of fruit his playboy boss
knew all the ripe astrea's I say oh I'm
hanging with him when they were coming
into the box and he had ten twenty of
them and look which one you want oh okay
it's like that and then he said I'm
gonna take you to the Playboy Mansion
what
no you kid so I went there and my first
time I'm backing up like I can't believe
I mean but I'm backing up away you know
it's like I'm scared to death probably
ten guys to a hundred women you know
everybody think is sex driven but it's
really not you you you have dinner then
you watch the latest movie and then of
course I don't want to ever say that sex
wasn't involved if you meet somebody and
that's what you know you wanted to do
and you did that but it's really a great
experience to go up there so yeah I had
fun there but part of sporters and in
connection with the celebrity culture
and magic was perfect for it he was a
born star with that wonderful smile and
that it knows how to work the house
magic knows how to work an audience
magic magic is a showman so it's kind of
like a very chic thing to do all the top
stars all the top producers you'd look
around that court courtside and it was a
real scene among the famous faces in the
crowd where Bruce Willis and Don Johnson
Bruce was starring and moonlighting
had one of the biggest hits of the
decade Miami Vice all so far the scene
was John Travolta he was coming off the
70s disco hit Saturday Night Fever and
starring in the 80s follow up stayin
alive Charlie Sheen had a spot on
celebrity row he was in the
quintessential 80s film Wall Street
where it was said that greed is good and
through it all there was Jack Nicholson
after going crazy and One Flew Over the
Cuckoo's Nest Jack was calmly said in
the shining
[Music]
Showtime team magic was perfect for that
he was born for that playing in the form
I guess like an audition in college
before I became an entertainer he had to
walk past it was like Academy Awards
every night every Hollywood celebrity
wants to be a famous athlete it could
happen only in Los Angeles where all the
great stars came out all the time the
whole LA deal just knew it you just knew
you were in the presence of greatness
[Music]
when I can't catch me
shit
[Music]
and I proved that switch nigga to trauma
don't stop and stance on stabbing
everybody JLo dad we're stabbing
everybody back up for my man get the
fuck that up black don't say ALC
legatees infantry
[Music]
he came to LA like the Pied Piper you
know people were giving him this and
giving him that but you know he stayed
pretty grounded to the game everybody
was getting high there but you can't
even smoke a joint around magic
he had real old school down in the
trenches work ethic and that was honed
in him by his dad Earvin Johnson senior
magic was always this guy you know he
never did none of that so I did
everything for him Magic Johnson was
living on a natural high he was starring
in the role of a lifetime point guard of
a Hollywood team with an offense called
Showtime Showtime
but Johnson has a director and star of
Showtime
the Lakers captured five NBA titles for
the 1980s competition drives me
[Applause]
competition makes me you know play this
game we have played competition makes me
get out there and practice five or six
hours trying to be the best that I can
be Showtime was coming down on the fast
break looking left so time was you know
coming down you know kicking it to
somebody then they said now I don't have
a shot kicking them somebody up no I
don't have cuter than somebody else and
finally somebody cooked but if anyone
could dim
showtimes dazzle it was Larry burden
company three times in four years the
NBA's two leading lights met in the
finals and the heat generated by their
rivalry was felt across the nation
they're competitive dislike emerged from
a greater truth but on the court they
were doppelgangers
team-oriented stars who cared about
winning above all else
basketball savants who fused the
substance of the 60s with the style of
the 70s to create a new and exciting yet
selfless way to play the game in the
1980s yeah I'm gonna pass but I'm gonna
pass in a way to make you look like a
jackass
though we're so similar in the way they
competed I mean if there were two halves
of the same brain same craziness to
excel I've seen that first couple days I
was with him basketball i.q off to charm
see negate will different most players
plan a game the right way was everything
a lot of guys can just score a lot of
guys can just rebound a lot of guys
could just make plays we can do it all
Larry and magically control the game
with 12 shots it was amazing maybe 7 for
12 they'd have 20 points 15 rebounds and
12 assists and you go man think I shot
the ball 12 times was the best player on
the court by far I think it was tough at
first I don't think either one of them
wanted to recognize if they had any
equal anywhere in what they did but they
sure as hell didn't want to recognize if
they're equal happen to be that other
guy that's why we hated each other - cuz
we knew we were mirrors of each other I
didn't for a while the two of them had
they had to come to grips with that they
had begun changing the game we were able
to change not only basketball but we
were able to change the NBA - when the
NBA and CBS signed a new TV deal before
the 8283 season the rescue plan was
simple sell more burden magic and sell
them not just as ball players but its
archrival characters in their own
dramatic saga you got this slick
Showtime african-american guy out west
and you got the lunch bucket
floppy-haired white guy with the bruises
all over his body
it's central casting it's perfect I mean
this was like made in heaven
in 1979 this idea of magic and bird was
created and so that was sort of a
no-brainer we'd have a doubleheader it
would be the Celtics plane first and the
Lakers playing second and that's the way
we did it
and when the Celtics and Lakers both
reached the finals just a year into the
new TV deal in 1984 it appeared the
superstar investment was about to pay
off it was huge it was probably the
biggest moment the NBA had up to that
point you had Boston in LA East against
West it had all the elements of a
classic showdown including what was
becoming the most inescapable element of
all did we know that blacks and whites
were lining up the whites with the south
as the blacks were of course we knew
that even in the Celtics own backyard
they land at Logan Airport at the 84
Finals he's getting accosted by various
people who were telling him Larry's
gonna take him down but this one an
older african-american gentleman cuz
after he goes magic I want to wish you
well good luck I want you to crush the
cells cuz he said oh where are you from
he said well I'm from Boston
he said you're from Boston and you're
rooting for the Lakers I thought
everybody here was crazy about the
Celtics and he looked right at me said
now why would I root for those white
boys Boston after all was a town still
scarred by the ugly busing crisis of the
mid 70s a violent period of urban unrest
during which white had been pitted
against black the resulting taint on the
city nationally coupled with a Boston
roster littered with white players a
firm too many black Americans that the
Celtics were not the team for them even
the day people's that play with the
southern sea you know I hated you at
that time you know I wanted magic to win
I didn't want that damn Larry Bird to
win we had all these black players but
they looked at because we had Larry Bird
leading us as a team that was why the
Lakers and Celtics
he kept fans attracted to it kept fans
enthralled and the fact that that every
time they were asked to perform magic
and bird really did only heightened it
it was the East Coast versus the West
Coast Celtic pride versus Laker
tradition as bird versus magic the most
hellacious competitors going at each
other they'll kill each other whatever
it takes to win magic always needed that
we needed each other we made each other
get better and better we made each other
have to go practice in the summer time
because I knew Larry Bird was shooting
to three hundred jumpers a day so that
made me have to do it this is this guy's
gonna be an egg more thorn in my side
for a long time there was something that
made Larry Bird and Magic Johnson
kindred sports in their respect for the
game their respect for the way it should
be played but larry and magic rivalry
caught the attention of fans across the
country one of them was the urban black
kid from michigan and the other one was
the you know when you're kicking country
boy from Indiana I mean that was perfect
that's central casting your person you
measure yourself against
[Applause]
probably all guys and all players have a
opportunity to play in the championship
and play against them play with the
Lakers of salvers or that time then they
then they understand what basketball
really is they were perfect archetypes
for what was becoming the biggest story
in sports but for the real life players
the narrative was much simpler it's
finally gonna happen we get to go
head-to-head again it's just a matter of
rolling that ball out there and let's
get it home to the Boston Garden and the
start of the NBA World Championship
Series I'm Brent Musburger each of the
last four NBA World Championship Series
either magic or bird has competed but
this is the first time that the two have
gone head-to-head
and we jumped out on that first game and
we won in Boston and with less than a
minute to go in Game two the Lakers were
closing in on a commanding series lead
[Applause]
from that point on things begin to
crumble
[Applause]
[Music]
cheesy Johnson drilling the time out the
Lakers regained their stride in Game
three only to be rudely knocked off it
again in Game four Kurt Rambis got taken
out we started fighting instead of
playing and it made us realize we were
not mentally tougher than the Celtics
Magic's just not himself
[Applause]
we're number of places where you know
Ervin didn't do what people expected him
to do
[Music]
[Applause]
Johnson this is the most Celtics want a
timeout despondent Magic Johnson goes to
the bench
[Applause]
Game five went to the Celtics Game six
to the Lakers is like 1979 all over
again
down to one game for Bird and Magic said
it's gonna be seven game series that's
the only time I ever felt that they no
way they're walking out here with a win
no way
[Music]
[Applause]
the lake
[Music]
[Applause]
I pride myself in being the guy who's
going to win it for us and and deliver
under pressure and it didn't happen Game
seven of the 84 series was one of CBS's
highest-rated telecasts of the year and
the highest-rated game the NBA had ever
produced
all of a sudden whether it was at CBS or
Madison Avenue the sports writers around
the country became phenomena what is
happening here the absolute foundation
in this resurgence was the Celtics and
the Lakers Larry Bird and Magic Johnson
but magic was in no mood to bask in the
accomplishment I took a media beating
tragic magic this is why we say labor is
better it's probably the first time ever
in my life I was depressed and I didn't
want people to see me it was something I
never dealt with in my life I hope he
was hurt over killed him he made some
bad plays down the stretch and nobody in
there was happier than me you know not
only when the game makes you feel good
but just knowing the other guy's
suffering and you know he was I remember
after the game that both the E and I
were in the shower was crying and stayed
in there for about 35 40 minutes it was
hard because not only had we lost to the
Boston Celtics he had lost to his
nemesis Larry Bird
[Music]
I think he just made me just like him
you know because he was that good and
and I think you you'd be jealous a
little bit well it was a big deal I
remember asking Quinn Buckner about it
afterwards they had a celebration in
downtown Boston after they won the
championship and you know it was unusual
for Larry to have these little outbursts
as Quinn would call them but you know
about 11:30 at night finally he turned
up when he goes I got him I finally got
him and he was talking about magic
in 1984 the Celtics claimed first
championship blood from the Lakers in
the war between magic and bird while the
Boston stars 27 point average lifted his
team to a seven-game victory Johnson
made ill-advised decisions in the
closing minutes of the fourth quarter in
overtime losses and aims to inform every
here fellas the thought we don't get
Boston this year and I think it became
even more so in 84 we had them on the
ropes and it turned out to our dismay we
had that but you know what fun thing
about this rivalry in this game that
there's always next year
are you crazy I said you're crazy I'm
not shooting a commercial with Larry so
I said okay what we're gonna shoot it in
LA I would never went to LA to film it
oh we got shoot
[Music]
you want to shoot commercial come to my
house
Oh Oh No
[Music]
one stoplight I thought Lansing the
small I think the plan was I'm gonna go
here I'm gonna do what I boasted do and
I'm trying to get up out of here
my plan was that
copper's made a pair of bird shoes but
last years MVP yep when they made a film
attitude but this is MVP magic show me
what you got
even after converse had convinced magic
and bird to film a sneaker add together
in the summer of 85 a question remained
how would the two hated rivals on the
court get along off of it I don't know
how he's gonna react I don't know how
I'm gonna react
we even shake hands so how are we gonna
do a commercial together the ad was to
be filmed at the home bird had built for
his mom it featured a full-length
basketball court the day's first
location so they say okay you playing
one-on-one and I'm looking at Larry he's
looking at me like is this real are we
playing plan because you know this this
is this is magic and Bert I could just
hear Larry you know starting in on well
you bring it to the basket I'm gonna
send it 30 rows up so the guy was like
no no not like that a fun game we both
okay
relief coming over both of our faces
that brief day taunt led to the next
stage dialogue we sat down next to each
other
oh great said man it's a nice spread you
got these ask mr. square you play I said
yeah I play here for it's not windy if
it's raining or windy I go to the gym
but this is where I do all my work I see
that tractors you work on it on
attracted say I work on this tractor
every day let her work on a tractor he's
yeah it's just them two walking and
talking and everyone's why they'd stop
and what I would say something and then
they'd start laughing then they said
okay break it's lunch break time I was
going to my trailer he said no my mother
has prepared lunch for us I'll bet the
house we went up to the house and we sit
down and we talked and my mom my
brothers thought the world of him
his mother was so nice making sure I had
enough to eat
I just saw my mother it was crazy
be Charmander he said but that's magic
he makes everybody feel welcoming warm
and he's a con man and while magic charm
Georgia Byrd it was someone else who
intrigued her son he met Ervin at lunch
Ervin was a good dude I like her a lot
better magic I was just so happy to
finally be perving with him because
magic was I don't know if I want to get
to know this guy but Ervin got a chance
to talk about a family I grew up we just
we just keep became to relax guys it's
just talking that day it was great it
was a great day beautiful day still for
bird ever the competitor that's all it
was just one day magic thinks the next
year okay well now we're great friends
so you know after the game we're gonna
go out we're gonna have a beer and
Larry's like no you're right I know you
better
you're a good guy but I still don't want
anything to do with you he's a
happy-go-lucky guy if a million got to
be really good friends
go out on the court he still play a same
game I couldn't yeah it's just the way
it is the one time great white hope who
would further emerged as the polarizing
racial figure to impart to that IRA's
increasingly conservative political
climate the rolling back institutionally
in Flook achievements a civil rights
movement we're going on a pace from
about 1975 on but the triumph of the
movement that rolled back took place in
the 1980s and I think there was people
were very aware of the black community
what was going on and I think there was
a lot of sublimated frustration and I
think one of the ways it got
supplemented was into basketball and I
think Larry through no fault of his own
was the receptacle within which the
lingering resentments somehow flowed
and after bird led the Celtics to the
championship in 1986 his third in the
pros winning his third straight MVP
award in the process the resentment grew
I always felt that the press was biased
in favor of Larry Bird it always felt to
me like they were gonna make Larry the
hero you know you'd see somebody score
and Larry would be in a cast and a suit
on the bench they'd say Larry Bird made
that possible a couple weeks ago when he
told that guy he could do it and he just
did it
they'd go get his motherfucker the
assistant he not in the game not to be
racist but we have a white guy who's the
best in the world
phenomenally a black sport now and he
got a guy like Larry Bird who can't run
him can't jumped but can do everything
out there bird may have sought to avoid
the conversation entirely but the more
he won the less he could escape it
in 1987 after Boston beat the Detroit
Pistons to advance to the finals for the
fourth straight year Pistons rookie
Dennis Rodman called Byrd overrated
because he was white his teammate Isaiah
Thomas then chimed in with some thoughts
of his own
[Music]
I can remember in the locker room I
think it was Jack McMullen come up to me
and said Isaiah just said boom boom boom
I go so he didn't care he didn't care
everybody else around him cared very
deeply in the days and weeks as it
turned out ahead media made it out like
was something but it didn't matter to me
what Isaiah or Dennis Rodman said and
still don't has no bearing what I do in
my life and in 1987 as Byrd vied with
magic to be the best the flap over
Isaiah Thomas is racially fueled remarks
forced Byrd to address his least
favorite topic at the worst possible
time I had to go to a press conference I
was in LA trying to get ready to play
the Lakers and tell people I didn't care
this don't bother me the main thing is
if the statements or whatever was said
doesn't bother me I don't think it
should bother any of us from playing all
year trying to get back to the finals
and play against magic this was a
distraction magic was on a mission to
prove to himself in the world that with
the ball in his hands he was still the
one in control
and after his Lakers ran through the 85
season he quickly got what he wanted
another shot at burden the Celtics they
one of these we won the West so it's
like guy everybody just get ready sit
back and let's enjoy it but that smile
belied the intensity of the clash that
awaited bird was facing off against
magic for the third time in four years
and if their relationship had softened
the determination to beat each other had
not if I had a glass of water and any of
those guys had been on fire I was a
drank the water and watch them they
called us you know chokers and sissies
you know we didn't like that and they
thought less of a Sun knew they did 85
we played him four times in exhibition
season for some reason I don't know why
they scheduled that by the fourth game
there was an all-out brawl
they call this one of the greatest
rivalries in all of sport the Celtics
the Lakers and if that is true it is the
most one-sided rivalry in all of sports
eight times these two have met for the
NBA championship and eight times the
Celtics have won at card in his sixth
year for Michigan State
but in the 85 Finals magic changed the
script over six grueling games he
masterfully controlled the pace with
all-around brilliance behind their point
guard the Lakers finally knocked out the
Celtics winning the clinching game in
the Boston Garden
[Music]
[Applause]
Redemption but one Magic Johnson is a
long year last year to wait for this
moment right now magic had even the
score with bird on the NBA floor but the
significance of their rivalry and their
relationship was still just taking hold
its game poor fruit the level of
competition between them was higher than
ever
bird played awesome down the stretch of
that game trailing 2-1 in the series the
Celtics were down by one point in the
final minute of the game but Larry Bird
wouldn't be easily vanquished
[Applause]
but seven seconds left though the Lakers
still had life three years earlier in
the 84 finals magic had flubbed a
similar situation but this was a
different magic one with a whole new bag
of tricks
my man switched to Kareem and Kevin
McHale jumped out to me as soon as I saw
Kevin I said oh I'm taking yeah magic
puts it on the floor a couple
head-and-shoulders fakes and he raised
up in the air and there was nobody that
was gonna get that shot
I remember after they called timeout
thinking there's still a shot here
Celtics may still win this game well
they set up the great play bird walk
worthy all the way up forced the denial
all the way up we've done it before
clear everybody out go to the ball
breaking the corner you caught it here
and as you caught it all you had to do
was turn and just turn and he just let
this thing go got wide open look we
couldn't believe it and I'm standing
right there it is
straight as an arrow dead-on
[Applause]
they were lucky because it's right on
line he looked at me like how did you
ever leave me that wide open be kidding
me change the whole series the Lakers
won the series and six in the aftermath
of a year in which magic had won his
first MVP the rivalry suddenly took on a
new tone I was shocked that he said it
because I thought to myself maybe this
is the beginning of a new era that's not
going to include him it was the passing
of the torch a little bit after
vanquishing burden 87 magic wasn't done
winning the following year he squared
off in the finals against his good
friend Isiah Thomas and the Pistons
[Applause]
beating them to become the NBA's first
repeat champions in two decades by the
dawn of the 90s he'd won five titles
played in eight finals and equaled
Bird's MVP tally of three but the more
magic one the less Irvin seemed to be
around to reap the spoils once I tasted
the champagne and the championship I
wanted more than and more than so magic
kept growing because we were successful
in 1985 la beat Boston in six games the
interior private war between magic and
bird she had no light on who was better
Johnson recorded
triple-doubles and bitched out of finals
record 84 assists while bird averaged 24
points is not the Showtime you know a
when they run it was a lot you could do
when they got out and got in their group
it was just a racehorse basketball at
its best and magic was just a great guy
in the middle of break making great
decisions it doesn't make that shot the
series is tied 2-2 if the Celtics win at
home in Game five they take a 3-2 lead
back to LA and they just need to get one
of the remaining two games and they
might they might well have done it
that's the biggest basket of Magic
Johnson's career I pride myself in being
one of the best players to ever play in
this game in a clutz situation you know
I love them rings like winning magic was
so serious and dedicated to this game
and he was a crazy crazy competitor and
a crazy man Irvin I think is the smiling
kid from Lansing I think urban died
about 25 minutes after the n-c-double-a
championship game
Irvin doesn't have the ego that magic is
magic got a crazy ego and winning is
everything
magic became a legend with his three
finalists MVPs and three regular season
MVPs hey the guy wanted Finals MVP as a
rookie he had the opportunity to play
with some of the all-time greats but
rather than writing their coattails to
history he made his own by being the
magician that made the Showtime Lakers
work and he's number five all-time and
wind shears for the playoffs he truly
earned his spot in history what was even
Johnson's vice now you know my publicist
wants me to say winning
but women loved her back then before
voicemail needs to have these mail slots
in the hotels where you leave your key
and when we get into a town Ervin's mail
slot would be so packed and it would be
just Susan and a phone number Linda and
a phone number choice in a phone I mean
that was every city every every time I
was on top of my game as magic so I
needed all that around me at that time
women des to that Hollywood
[Music]
magic was living in a context of
sybaritic access from the minute he
walked in the door and he developed a
sweet tooth sex with several women at
the same time yeah like I said women
have different fantasies I'm want to be
with two or three at a time hard and
hard and with one or more women oh yeah
oh yeah I meant one or more at the same
time at the same time yes you know one
time I had six at one time oh and so I
think that they made their decision
really do believe he looks upon Magic
Johnson as a movie character he played I
think Ervin got overwhelmed in LA by
what it meant to be a star that's
probably true that the magic ego
swallowed Irvin a little bit but that's
okay because I couldn't win five
championships without that through all
of this haze of of women and money and
fame and fortune he still kept
basketball in at number one he never
seemed to lose that focus and that's
exactly what's happened you know magic
could be the mayor of Los Angeles he
could be the Governor of California
that's how much the state loves him and
that's how much he loves this town my
dad knew he is the ultimate matchmaker
and they really were I think the most
special relationship between an owner
and a player that's ever been and
probably ever will be Magic Johnson
spoke publicly for the first time about
him contracting HIV I'm sleeping really
laying down just waiting on the game and
the phone rings and the voice says hey
you got to come back to LA okay why I
can't tell you till you get to LA
so I said okay two hours later he was in
the office of Lakers team physician
Michael Melman doctor mailman and starts
to tell me that you know through the
physical that I took that they
discovered that I had HIV
first time ever in my life I'm such a
control freak great do things the right
way I'm out of control oh it was every
time how is it possible what happened
how did it happen to me and my mind is
racing you know and and then you just
it's just devastated I'm thinking
Urban's gonna get skinny and die I mean
literally that's what I thought Ervin's
gonna get skinny and die
the first person I thought of was Larry
I wonder what Larry thinks the day that
I heard about magic could just sort of
change my love for basketball it shook
me up you know you gonna get that
feeling by the same type of feeling I
had when my father died he wants to
understand why you know how can I talk
to him I need to speak to him it was
just really important for Larry to talk
to him you know I sort of I don't know I
want to hear from him probably didn't
believe it cause we didn't tell we're
talking you know he's just how you doing
I heard about it and you can almost hear
both of us with some tears and eyes and
I'm choked up because he did call me you
know what's some happens
to you
and then you find out who really your
friends are and people who really care
about you you figure are those battles
it's all those things we had to go
through as warriors as competitors then
ask men here this man says and you know
what man you okay and so that was the
greatest moment for me to you know to
have him check on me and to make sure I
was okay first of all let me say could
get after late afternoon because of HIV
virus that I have attained I will have
to retire from the Lakers you talk about
letting the air out of a balloon add me
a crash landing there's no words to
define but that meant to this franchise
but they're meant to those of us that
were so close to him
[Music]
you know what eulogize him
we want to know give all the love and
support and prayers and all the other
people that are afflicted with her
father's insidious disease needs was
synonymous with death and I think that's
immediately what everybody feared is
that magic was going to die everyone was
afraid for him personally
I just didn't want to see this bubbly
enthusiastic guy suddenly not be that
meeting and that was my greatest concern
for him it wasn't a basketball
tournament at the time that Magic
Johnson announced that he was HIV
positive the prevailing medical
intelligence was that by this time
Magic Johnson would either be apathetic
dying man barely recognizable physically
or he'd already be dead it was just like
knowing someone's got cancer that's
cancer that's run throughout their
entire body you know they're gonna die
reporters crying I mean we thought this
guy was in total denial I plan on going
on living for a long time
bugging you guys like I've always have
we thought this this smile is gonna be
wiped off his face forever and he was
gonna die but we're gonna watch him die
in public I just remember in the room he
was joking and I'm sitting there looking
at him crying and he's like poop man I'm
gonna be okay and we'll be okay it's
gonna be all right
I'm gonna go on I'm gonna beat it and
I'm gonna have fun sure come on you're
gonna beat this to him it was a contest
Larry Bird and Magic Johnson aids Magic
Johnson it's same thing it's just a
different game different rules but I'm
still gonna win he wasn't planning on
going nowhere Herman was planning that
date to find the right medicine to eat
right get rest and live forever that's
what he was planning thank you again and
I'll see you soon
but his magic put up a positive public
face his nemesis still out of sorts shed
the mask he had hidden behind for years
he was visibly like it really set him
back far the two toughest days I've had
since my father passed away
I've been very depressed and then sort
of dinner love it I listen to him
talking this press conference about how
devastated he was and I remember
thinking to myself god damn Larry found
urban you know just out of the blue
something like that happening you just
never had other than one other instance
and I was hoping I'd never see that
again because I remember how I felt
weeks after that yesterday was just a
sad day and at his game that night bird
was forced to confront pain he couldn't
so easily play through then won't be
there that night first time ever and
really last I remember we played in
Atlanta and you'll feel for the game you
know this wouldn't wasn't good time to
be out there never had that before
that night he threw a pass I'll never
forget he threw a half court pass behind
his back for a layup and if you blurred
your eyes you squint your eyes it looked
like magic and that was Larry saying
goodbye
and I mean this competition thing is is
amazing what it does to you what you put
your body through and what you do and
what you say and how you feel and
knowing that he's not there wouldn't
feel right I think it's all them years
that you know what's he doing
well if he's practicing this hard I bet
he shot 500 shots today and I didn't get
500 and it's always that mind games bird
played through the 91-92 season his last
in the NBA but a part of him was already
gone I didn't check the papers anymore
I still want to compete you know but
what the same really what and on top of
that I learned quickly how differently I
be looked at now that I had HIV
with the exception of that year when he
was called tragic Johnson because on the
basketball court things didn't shake
down properly this is the first time I'm
hearing ignorant magic Johnson was not a
hero he admitted his lifestyle and
anybody with that kind of lifestyle
really isn't a hero hatred there was
some of my former teammates who had
their own little things that they were
talking about why this happened to me
you know anybody else does
heterosexually got it come on man you're
in denial
I've been called gay faggot Urban's
lover
I've been called all that shit lon Rosen
got a call from Isaiah Thomas asking you
know I keep hearing magics gay and Ilan
said well for crying out loud you know
better than anybody he isn't you're one
of his best friends and he said well we
don't know what's going on in Hollywood
and the fact that Isaiah was questioning
why he got this I think it was really
really hurtful to him he used to say you
know I don't want people to stop shaking
my hand and give me my hugs
he loves to be loved and that's what
bothered him the most that people would
change in relationship to him he would
show up at the Lakers facility to work
out and to shoot some baskets and he
tried to engage his teammates and say
hey you wanna play a little one-on-one
before practice and oh geez no I can't I
gotta go get taped or oh geez I get work
to do I gotta do something else in Jack
McCallum's forthcoming book on the dream
team Clyde Drexler made some very candid
comments suggesting that you received
undue accolades shortly after you
announced that you had HIV I know you
were unaware of these comments but so I
want to read them to you he said very
candid he said everybody kept waiting
for magic to die every time he'd run up
the court everybody would feel sorry for
the guy and he said that you were on the
declining end of your career at that
time period and if it hadn't been for
your diagnosis he would have been the
MVP that year is that a fair statement
you know I think that you know Clyde I
mean if that's how he felt that's how he
felt you know I think that Clyde was a
guy who always fought for more publicity
a guy who probably thought that he
should deserve more credit I didn't want
any sympathy only thing I wanted was to
be treated the same way you treated me
before you knew I had HIV you know a lot
comes out after the fact that I mean
here there's 20 years later and now you
want to make these comments 20 years
later now I know Clyde you know I know
Clyde so this is really funny you want
to make these comments 20 years later
but at the end of the day I got to take
the high road I don't have time to worry
about what a guy felt like but you had a
chance to say these things to me or if
you you had a problem with it should
have came out with it at that time and
then instead of hiding behind the book
you know no never
I'm never gonna hide behind anything
you know I'm going to tell you what time
it is and I'm going to tell you how I
feel the difference between Clyde and I
is that I figure out a way how to win I
don't I don't sit back and ever say mmm
oh the guy gave him all the sympathy and
I should have been an MVP I never say
that
all the times I diced you the one do you
know how many times I should have won I
could say I I could have done this I'm
not that guy when I see crying I'm gonna
hit him hug him and man how you doing hi
the family are your wife you know I
would never mention this because it
doesn't mean anything to me I just got
to keep moving forward
you know vicious nasty thing there is a
developing story that we need to address
the NBA is investigating racist remarks
allegedly made by LA Clippers owner
Donald sterling in a phone call with his
girlfriend it's an audio tape obtained
by TMZ in that conversation the man
believed to be sterling takes issue with
his girlfriend posting a picture of
herself with Magic Johnson and posting
it on Instagram saying quote not only is
he not apologized but he lashed out at
you in a big way magic and really said
some terrible things
Magic Johnson you know has made a public
comment what do you have something to
say to him what could I say to him he it
doesn't matter it doesn't matter I'm
hurt but it doesn't matter you're hurt
that he that he said that he spoke out
publicly he's got to come down hard he
shouldn't own a team anymore and he
should stand up and say I don't want to
own the team anymore especially when you
have african-americans written his
apartments coming to the games and
playing for him and coaching for this is
this is bad for everybody it's bad for
America and so I'm really upset about it
it's obviously appalling it's very
disturbing and there's no doubt
that the league itself Adam Silva
specifically has to take actions this is
the first big test massive and he's got
some spin this guy he has to suspend
this guy I don't know that young lady I
took a picture and all of a sudden I'm
in the middle of this mess but at the
same time I would not let you attack me
without responding I felt proud to be
covering a league that handled a
situation like this as definitively and
as boldly as it did today Chuck amen I
was in shock today ain't gonna even lie
Ernie I was sitting there I built my
whole today I've got to be in front of
my television at two o'clock and when he
said I am banning mr. sterling for life
from any association with the Clippers
organization or the NBA I said wow I
mean here is a man who's I don't know if
I say this he acts so holy I mean he
made loved every girl in every city in
America and he had AIDS and when he had
those aids Ike went to my synagogue and
I prayed for him I hoped he could live
and be well I didn't criticize him I
could have is he an example for children
you know because he has money he's able
to treat himself but Magic Johnson is
irrelevant in this thing he didn't do
anything harmful to anybody and I
respect him and I admire everything that
he does you know I'd like to help even
more if he will offer me an opportunity
to help I like to help minorities
what is he done can you tell me big
Magic Johnson what has he done well yes
he's a business person who's got AIDS
did he do any business
I'd like did he help anybody in South LA
I think it's HIV it doesn't actually a
full-blown AIDS well what kind of a guy
goes there recent he has sex with every
girl then he catches the HIV and is that
someone when you want to respect them
and tell our kids about I think he
should be ashamed of himself I think he
should go into the background but what
does he do for the black people doesn't
do anything you know that's his opinion
if he thinks I'm not a role model that's
his own opinion but I've know the things
that I've done in urban America and for
people you call up and say I mean I've
sent over 10,000 minorities to college I
got 150 of those students on scholarship
right now what does he do work for the
Dodgers well I think he got a little
wrong I'm the owner of the Dodgers so
you're saying that African Americans
don't contribute to their to
african-american communities as much as
Jewish there's no african-american
nevermind I'm sorry
[Applause]
I wish that cracker woulda said some
shit to me
salty ass motherfucker a message to the
motherfucking it on the Clippers you
bitch-ass redneck white bread chicken
shit motherfuck fuck you your momma and
everything connected to you you racist
piece of shit fuck you you know the
parties and the girls most of that time
I wasn't here that's why I wasn't here
his partying had always been legendary
Franklin imagine he's such a good guy
such a nice guy
he was almost like a Babe Ruth and a lot
of things that happened off the court
just weren't written about it was a room
at the Forum sort of a side room that
belonged was like a sauna room and that
really kind of belonged to James he
would have I guess he'd have lemon come
in after the games that way when Jamal
retired that room got bequeathed to
magic and so magic would have his guys
from what I understand would have these
guys kind of she found a woman in the
audience who kind of suited him or where
he had some woman who was coming to the
game and they would meet him in this
room after the game in magic he always
have a smile on his face there's an
infidelity in pro sports there's a I
think an acceptance that is really
disturbing because these guys are
so-called superheroes they're supposed
to be superheroes sexually to what this
situation deal was it opened their eyes
to everybody else in the league and I
think everybody who's living that type
of lifestyle as shock waves from Magic's
disclosure radiated well beyond the
sports world he was left with an even
painful task the emotional disengagement
from the Laker Brotherhood and the game
that had always sustained him the
hardest thing burden that day was not
speaking to the press and telling the
world it was going downstairs to the
locker room and telling his fellow
teammates he's not gonna be there
anymore for them he's not gonna be on
the court that was the only time I saw
Ervin Johnson break down magic calls the
night before and told me that he had
something then very important he wanted
to say to me and to meet him at the
forum and that's when he told me and all
I could do is cry
this isn't how the movie supposed to end
you know the good guys always push to
ride off in the sunset the day that we
found out it just seemed like the end of
the world we cried and we thought that
it was over
even with this devastation he just said
you know what we're gonna fight this
thing and I was like okay let's do it
he tried to be as positive as he could
and he smiled which is usual response to
everything he said I'm gonna do it the
way I've always done it which is exactly
the way he handle of today directly
honestly and extraordinarily upbeat
fashion which is just magic my father
taught me strength and I that's what I
am I'm too strong and I'm worried about
that just keep going
it was this unshakable optimism that
carried a new and penetrating message
about AIDS to a nation in denial to have
a man like Magic Johnson come out and
say yeah I'm HIV positive and and watch
me continue with my life let's a lot of
people realize that this is not the end
of life but civilian clothes didn't
quite suit magic his game hadn't changed
his physical strength was uncompromised
and his will to win remain firm three
months after announcing it was
hiv-positive
he took the floor at the 1992 all-star
game but it wouldn't be a smooth return
there were players like like Carl Malone
like Mark Price who weren't sure that it
was safe for magic to play they didn't
know what did with the risks were for
playing with somebody who had the HIV
virus but I think Magic Johnson
overpowered that tension with his great
joy and you could see it in his face
with getting out there and playing in
typical magic fashion he would own the
day scoring 25 points and winning the
MVP
[Applause]
seeing everybody embrace magic at the
end of the day I think that did a lot
for people's understanding and awareness
of HIV he comforted other people I said
don't worry about me I'm gonna be fine
I'm gonna deal with this and he was he
was still learning Johnson he was not
you know broken by this the reaction to
magic at the all-star game and a gold
medal performance in the Olympics that
summer convinced Johnson to rejoin the
Lakers the following preseason when he
wanted to come back there were people
talking about whether they could play
against him it was a great debate if I
get in collision with a guy you don't
have to be mad they could be Joe smoke
but the fact of the matter is if you got
the AIDS virus before for me to play as
far as I'm capable of playing and if
people can't respect my decision that's
tough
MAGIX return ended before the regular
season began Magic Johnson is retired
from basketball again this time he says
he will not change his mind
Johnson's decision to retire again
appears to been influenced very much by
what has happened in the intervening
month in 1994 Johnson grew restless from
the game of basketball and accepted an
offer to coach the Lakers magic went
into coaching because he always felt
that I I think even as a player that I
can change it you can always control it
as a player I can change it I can make
us wood I can make this play work I can
make him a better player don't worry I
can handle it because he was in control
of it I was gonna dictate it I'll take
care of it and then when he became a
coach and he put that responsibility in
the hands of immature not as talented
players and the party was very
frustrating for him
with a record of 5 and 11 magic step
down after just 16 games but the thought
that he might be done with basketball
was unacceptable to him prompting a
comeback as a player in 1996 32 games
later however he knew that the curtain
had rung down on Showtime it took away a
little bit from what he had accomplished
it wasn't just a matter of coming back
once and having an out workout it was
coming back retiring coming back
retiring coming back retiring even if he
wasn't doing it he was talking about it
I don't think there's any question that
had he not done the seesaw thing that he
would be held in high regard I was
privileged to know magic as a player and
I know him now and I can make the case
he was the most beloved athlete ever in
any sport
[Applause]
dominated with joy is like a weird car
I've never seen that combination before
he became pariah among the players who
arm alongside he's gonna show you two
also the athletes are not hired and
people think they are my feeling was
dead man walking he just wanted to play
basketball and it got taken from him the
worst thing of all this that I couldn't
play basketball I don't even think
dealing with HIV
[Music]
a television screen from here to Bangor
Maine greatest point guard to ever play
the game
is here super legendary point guard ever
to play the game of basketball
normally when every says special guests
it could be anyone but this time it
really is especially yes that's right
mister Magic Johnson was the best point
guard of the 1980s Isiah I will have to
save Magic Johnson number one Magic
Johnson Magic Johnson a 6 9 lead part
[Music]
[Applause]
he's only got ever seen we'll look at a
guy time measured for speed measured his
distance look away for about three
seconds look you off and then hit that
guy in the dime without ever look
[Music]
everybody wants to be mad everybody
wanted to go out there for the fans to
pass
and he wanted to win so bad but he
always have fun she's always smiling you
always appeal to the crowd they always
want the crowd to be ended because you
know that's what the teams get also be
smart in that aspect if I could do that
then I'll be on my way if I could learn
how to give an assistant and play to the
crowd and get the crowd involved then I
think that's what it's all about I could
remember back in the day when I used to
watch it some L would love to play
against him and he was retiring when I
got into the NBA and when he came back I
thought that was wonderful
it was amazing that I was actually out
on the floor at the same time if he was
he was having the basketball I mean this
is like a dream and I got a chance to
tour with Prince so those those two best
things I've ever done in my whole life
yeah well those are pretty great things
to do now you're an owner of not only
the Dodgers everybody knows you own this
Los Angeles Sparks WNBA - yes the season
starting right right about that we
started our first game where one and oh
and Candice Parker's back Hel's the
great player right she is and she got
left off the Olympic team so she's
taking that personal and she's taking it
to go and take it out on the league this
is you and Candice went one on one right
now who would win that game Jimmy come
on
has nothing changed about me my daughter
right now who's 21 and we would go to
ten I would let her get to nine so used
to win
I knew nothing else back then no no
that's tough money comes out they may be
better players but they're never be
better winners and that's what my whole
goal was was to win in as a obviously
he's had stakes and Lakers Dodgers
Sparks and the MLS team whoa he's uh
he's Magic Johnson the former Laker
great of course in the Dodger owner
joining us Dan Patrick show and it's a
pleasure to know him he has God in his
heart and and I Love You Man magic you
you're you're an all-timer you are the
Alzheimer to magic you love Larry Bird
and here's the thing you played him for
title for four titles you won three bird
one-one yeah but your relationship is
such that they're even doing a Broadway
play about you and bird
ladies and gentlemen playing Larry Bird
mister
and in the role of Magic Johnson please
welcome mr. Kenan
I knew
[Music]
it's an incredible night i tomorrow
tunis a good friend of mine asked me to
become an investor on this show and I
read it after she said Larry Bird and
Magic Johnson I said well you had me at
Larry Bird I am thrilled I mean I office
is right down the street I grew up in
New York I live up on the west side
Madison Square Garden the south of here
so at the epicenter of New York City on
Broadway the NBA is on the marquee so
it's a great night for me it's a little
different than I'm used to but being
with Irving we don't get together a lot
I think last time I've seen it by six
seven weeks ago but we like to hang out
a little bit and to watch this night
I'll be exciting for us
how surprising do you think it is to see
an NBA show debut on the Great White Way
why not want to do another rebuy ball
sick of it I saw them the first time
around why do you think audience just to
come out and see your life story well if
you're a sports fan and you've been
around long enough I think that they
know our story and I think it's a great
opportunity for the ladies bring their
husbands down take a look
a more painful when the Lakers lose or
the Dodgers lives well right now it has
to be the Lakers because you know at
least the Dodgers were off to a good
start to an hour
the Lakers I think the pain is because
we've never seen the Lakers lose like
they losing this season and I think fans
are still wondering what's the plan to
get back to being a championship team
well that's just I don't know what that
plan is and I every time I look at you
may be as frustrated as anybody else but
what do you think is that grand planned
here that brings the Lakers back how
would you like magic brought back at
what capacity I would like him to have
complete control of basketball operands
and here is why because I know this much
if you are 215 he's gonna do something
and I promise you I promise you Magic
Johnson would do this he'd have a press
conference just to tell Laker fans don't
you worry this is a momentary lapse this
will not last oh we ain't having this
Laker nation I have a message for you
happy days are here again a new day a
new era of Laker basketball we welcome
in governor and president Jeanie buss
head of basketball operations
Earvin Magic Johnson thank you for being
here what can you share with us that led
you to this point well first of all I
think that coming back just to the
organization that I love the Lakers and
then I've known this woman who has been
put in charge by her father Jeanie buss
and when we sat down for dinner and she
asked me to come back I think the timing
was right
re-energized everybody that works for
the Laker organization and make sure our
fans understand that you know we're here
to win Jeannie has always always
dedicated her life to
winning and to making sure that the
Laker fans are happy with the product
that's on the floor see how hard was
this for you on a personal level because
it involves your brother Jim and Mitch
who you've known for most of your life
this was a very difficult decision
it was probably so hard for me to make
that I probably waited too long and for
that I apologize to Laker fans but now
with clarity and direction and and after
talking with Ervin really knowing that a
change was needed and that's why we're
here today
you mentioned waiting sometimes that
because you wanted to give Jim his 3 to
4 year timeline in almost its entirety I
wanted I wanted you know for the current
front office to have the opportunity to
show us what Laker basketball was going
to be and there it just wasn't going in
a direction that was satisfactory for
what this organization stands for in
magic over the last couple weeks what
did you learn about where the
organization was headed where you knew
you wanted to get in there and start to
make things happen well it really wasn't
about the last couple of weeks it's been
about the years right and I think first
of all I want to work side by side with
Jeannie and I think that if it was
probably any other situation I probably
wouldn't have you know left my business
aside left my business to concentrate
fully a hundred and fifty percent on
Laker business but because of her
leadership and I know she wants to win
so bad that I decided hey I want to work
side by side with her this is exciting
time I told my wife cookie I said I
can't believe it it's 1979 I get picked
by the Lakers I jumped and screamed I
said I can't and then I get off the
plane and his doctor buzz Jeannie's
sitting there waiting on me and we hit
it off and thank God he took me in like
I was his son and we were brought up
together brothers and sisters and then
he said okay if you can write a check
I'm gonna let you be owner so I said
okay here's the check dr. buss and he
allowed me to be owner when he didn't
have to and then I was there Ginny
called me said you know my dad want to
see you and she thought it was that time
and we I stayed in that room for hours
and we laughed as he in his final days
and then for her to say
Ervin I want to entrust you and what I
believe in you I'm gonna put this
franchise in your hands right to make
basketball decisions has been
unbelievable so I thank you and I thank
you guys because this is like if you if
you could draw up your dream job right
what would it be this would be it Oh
magic started off with a big hug and a
big kiss oh happy for you and I can't
tell you you know just how many times
that I thought about you know how much
you really love the Lakers and I
remember you know seeing you cry on the
floor you know after losing in Boston
and you know winning in the finals and
everything else and just you know it's
hard to really describe to people how
much you care and love the Los Angeles
Lakers and I'm truly happy for you in
September of 2002 Johnson was inducted
into the Basketball Hall of Fame after a
unanimous vote sharing the day was the
player against whom he was measured from
college days forward together they
invested the ceremony with us
so like I was gonna write up a big
speech I want to talk from my heart I
said damn he broke my heart so many
times do I have anything left
I've always said that if you put Michael
Jordan's name in a head Magic Johnson's
name in a hat you picked out one of them
you wouldn't be disappointed at all I
have to thank God
because 11 years ago I didn't know if I
would be here to accept your support
Larry the biggest reason that I'm here
is because of you making me go to that
gym every summer not only staying for
four hours but I figure I'd better stay
for six because I knew you were there
about five to six yourself Larry you
know you just what a basketball player
should be
[Music]
the biggest reason that I'm here is
because of you it was tremendous playing
against you and I'm just happy and I
think God that I got to know you now
there's just Larry Bird the basketball
player but Larry Bird a man and I
appreciate you coming out here Larry
again we're gonna meet up again ready to
go so now let's get it on now we can
play checkers the thing that
characterized his game was a greek word
called enthusiast most the gift and
giving the best with enthusiasm that's
what he did every game I thank him for
spreading the cord out him and making
you go did you see I thank him for
making team bigger than I it's not like
that now you taught me how to run my VCR
because you never want to miss a magic
game you know may God bless you all
all the nicknames probably as good as it
is Magic Johnson magic is exactly what
he was all we can hope for is we go
through that new millennium is that
there'll be a Magic Johnson Air Force
[Music]
nothing but net
you